If you're like me
and you have a problem
with space,
Well, you can't
do better than
The binford 6100
telescopic ladder.
If you're like al,
you'll need more than a ladder
to solve your problems.
The beauty of this ladder
is that, closed,
It's only
2 1/2 feet tall.
With a simple tug,
it expands to 12 1/2 feet.
You just pull... Oh, this is
jammed or something, al.
I'll just climb up there
And show ya
how sturdy this is.
The binford telescopic ladder,
just as supportive -
Tim, you might wanna
watch the, uh...
Could I finish, al?
I just want ya to be careful
so you don't -
aah!
The binford 6100
telescopic ladder.
Perfectly safe for those of you
who take the time to read
the safety instructions.
(end of segment music plays)
(applause and cheering)
All right. Now is the time
we go to our mailbag.
That's right. Viewers
write in their questions,
and I answer them.
And I give
the correct
information.
You're just a superhighway
of information, al.
If you wanna contact al
via the computer,
He's on e-mail
in the flannel net.
Heidi, my mailbag,
please.
Here you are, tim.
Thank you.
"dear tim and al,
"my wife says
I spend too much money
at the hardware store.
"what percentage of our budget
should I spend on tools?
Signed,
confused in lansing."
Take your entire budget,
subtract your house payment,
if there is one,
Utilities, phone,
add up that total,
And forget about it
and buy whatever you want, huh?
Ha-ha-ha.
Remembering to leave
a little aside
For your future
divorce lawyer.
Whoa, this letter's from
western michigan university.
That's where my wife and I
went to college.
They must've seen our show,
and they want their diploma
back.
(both snicker)
Couldn't be further
from the truth.
Listen to this.
"dear tim, in recognition
for the fine work you do,
We would like to bestow upon you
an honorary ph.D."
Arr-arr-arr.
Oh, now wait a second.
Your alma mater wants to
give you a doctorate?
That's right. Yeah.
From now on, you'll be
standing next to a doctor.
Which would make you
my nurse.
Oh, no.
Mom's giving away our toys
to charity again.
I hate when she does that.
We told her to keep the toys
and give you away,
But no charity would take ya.
When are you gonna grow up
and stop playing with
stupid toys?
Hey, not all of this stuff
is mine.
I believe this is
your whoopee cushion.
Hey, not the gas master.
This is
a family heirloom.
Taylor men have been
sliding it under
unsuspecting butts
For generations.
Wait. Mom cannot
give away my dart gun.
Glad I talked mom
out of buying you a bb gun.
What's the box?
What's going on?
Mom's giving away our toys
to charity again.
She can't give away
our toys.
Especially not
my spring-loaded eyeballs.
I love these things.
Guys, you won't believe
what happened today.
I got a ph.D. From
western michigan university.
You?
You sure it's not
a ph.D-minus?
No, wise guy.
It's an honorary ph.D. From
the engineering department.
Whoa-oa-oa.
You got a degree
when you didn't even
earn it?
Can I get
that type of deal
for high school?
I hope so.
It's your only shot
at graduating.
This is why we're
getting rid of those toys.
So how was your day?
Horrible.
My behavioral psych professor
has assigned yet another paper.
I haven't finished
the first one.
Plus, I have to get through
these books by this weekend.
What did you do today?
Got a ph.D.
Ha-ha-ha-ha.
Very funny.
Funny, huh?
Check out the letter
from western michigan.
You barely graduated,
and they're giving you
an honorary degree?
Makes me wonder
why I worked so hard
for the first one.
You didn't work
at all.
You partied
the whole time.
And the celebration
continues.
(pounding)
Tim, I'm trying
to study here.
I understand.
You're working hard to get
your advanced degree, too.
What are you doing?
I'm hanging up that letter
that says I'm gonna get a ph.D.
You framed the letter?
Yeah. I framed the envelope
it came in, too.
(phone rings)
Hello.
Yes, this is dr. Taylor.
Harry, real funny.
Ha-ha-ha. Yeah.
He's calling me
tim "the school man" taylor.
Harry is droll.
Huh? What?
She called you a troll.
All right, I'll stop by
the hardware store.
Thanks. Bye. That was nice
of him to call, wasn't it?
Yeah, it's really sweet.
I've got to study.
All right,
no more interruptions.
(doorbell rings)
I have a delivery
for a dr. Taylor.
Hey, doc,
how do I get rid of
this big wart on my hand?
Ball-peen hammer, chisel.
It'll pop right off.
Thanks, doc.
Jill, you didn't
have to do this.
I didn't. Gosh, somebody
really went overboard.
Who would send
such a huge arrangement?
Your mom and dad.
What?
They said, "dear son..."
They called me "son" instead
of "hey, you." I like that.
"saw the show. It's great
to have ph.D. In the family.
We're very proud of you.
Love, lillian and the colonel."
I can't believe
they did this.
I can't believe it,
either.
They barely acknowledge me
going back to school.
Now they're
sending you flowers?
Come on, jill. They're proud
of my accomplishments.
Accomplishments?
Well, yeah.
I teach people
from all walks of life
The complexities
of tool usage
In an ever-changing world.
I believe I've actually
bridged the gap
Between the world of hardware
and academia.
Now you just need to
bridge the gap between
fantasy and reality.
Hey, wilson.
Well, hi-ho,
fairest of the taylors.
Jill, what time
do you have?
Uh, 8:33.
Uh-uh-uh-uh.
My new sundial
seems to be running
a bit slow.
Maybe you should noodle
with your gnomon.
I beg your pardon.
The gnomon -
it's that crossbar there.
It should be pointing north.
Oh, ho-ho, well,
thank you, jill.
It's such a pleasure having
a knowledgeable neighborette.
Huh! I may be knowledgeable,
But tim's the one
getting the ph.D.
(chuckles)
Knowledgeable
and funny, funny, funny.
I'm not kiddin'.
Didn't tim tell you?
No.
Western michigan
is giving tim
An honorary doctorate.
Tim?
Yeah. Here I am killing myself
to get an advanced degree.
They just hand him one.
I'm trying not to be -
I just can't -
Well, well, well, well,
jill, jill, jill.
I've never been a proponent
of symbolic gestures,
But tim is your husband,
he is my neighbor.
We should be happy.
(sighs) you're right.
A ph.D.?
Tim?
Aw, jill, jill,
jill, jill...
Do you realize
how many hours
I had to study
To get my doctorate
in forgotten languages
and extinct cultures?
Oh, my, my, my.
Sitting in that library,
Reading that
insufferable microfilm
Till I thought I would
practically go blind?
Not to mention
that to support myself,
I had to volunteer as a subject
for lab experiments. Oh, oh.
And the thing
that really irritates me
about this whole thing -
Jill, jill, talk me down,
talk me down.
I came out here
so you'd talk me down.
Oh, I'm sorry, jill.
I lost control.
I know.
It's ok, it's ok.
What can I say here that might
put this into perspective
for both of us?
Oh, yes. The late senator
dwight morrow said
There are people who do things
and people who take the credit,
And the trick is to be
in the first group.
There's a lot less
competition.
I see what you're sayin'.
Does that make you
feel any better?
Not at all.
Me, neither.
On the other hand, it is
a great honor for tim,
And I guess we have to put
our negative feelings aside
And just find a way
to cheer him on.
Well, I know. He should
be allowed to enjoy this.
I should be more supportive.
Mm-hmm. And if the university
is giving him a ph.D.,
They must feel
he is a worthy recipient.
(thumping)
Obviously they know something
we don't.
Does everybody know
what time it is?
(all) tool time.
That's right. Binford tools
is proud to present
The star of our show -
Dr. Tim
"the tool man" taylor."
Thank you, and welcome
to tool time.
I am dr. Tim
"the tool man" taylor,"
And you all know my assistant -
al "ma mater" borland.
Yesterday, we talked
about getting insects
out of your house.
And if that didn't bug ya,
Today we're gonna talk about
rodent removal.
We're gonna meet the man
who has a job no one else wants.
Actually, tim,
I have that job.
Let's do a warm
tool time welcome to the man
who calls himself...
(like arnold schwarzenegger)
...The verminator.
Duke miller, come on out.
Congratulations on your ph.D.
Thank you very much, duke.
I myself attended
a state-certified
rodent extermination school.
Yeah? Where'd you go,
ratcliffe?
No, but we did play them
in football.
So, anyway, what
got you interested
in extermination?
Well, al, I've always
loved animals.
Why don't you show
the studio audience
and everybody at home
Some of the tools
of the trade?
Sure thing.
Now, displayed here on the wall
we have your basic glue boards.
Use these at home.
They're very effective.
Mm-hmm. Now,
these look to me to be
some type of a snap trap.
That's right. They come in
a variety of sizes
And accommodate both domestic
and imported cheeses.
Next, we have
a more sophisticated
kind of trap.
I see that. Vic, if you
wanna come in here.
Looks like a double-hinged
door there,
A large eating area,
and little glass skylights.
Ha-ha-ha.
Mice have a better pad
than you do, al.
Now, these are actually
humane traps.
The mouse doesn't get killed.
You can make him a pet.
So the mouse goes in
the little door here - aah.
Aah!
Ha-ha-ha-ha.
This is it.
Sangren hall.
Seems like it was yesterday
I was shooting spit wads
into the ceiling.
Now I'm getting a ph.D.
And we are so pleased
for you, aren't we, boys?
(all, unenthused)
pleased, yeah.
Honey, isn't this
where you and I
took sociology together?
Yeah. I got my first "a"
in that class.
Dad, what'd you get?
A lot of sleep.
Dad, are all these people
getting fake degrees?
No. Most of these people
had to work years to get 'em.
Chumps. Ha-ha.
Dad, where's the bathroom?
I believe it's still
down that hallway back there.
When you get in there,
See if your mom
is still mentioned
in stall four.
Hey, does everybody know
what time it is?
Ph.D. Time.
Ha-ha, it's great
to see you again, tim.
And you would be?
Your old philosophy teacher -
professor garver.
Ah, yes, philosophy.
"I think, therefore I am."
descartes.
Pretty good for a guy
who was never in class.
I thought I was there,
therefore I probably was.
I passed you,
therefore you're lucky.
Ha-ha-ha.
Prof, this is
my wife jill.
How do you do?
It's nice to meet you.
You must be very thrilled
for tim.
Oh, thrilled doesn't begin
to describe how I feel.
Ecstatic beyond belief.
Really, really proud.
We all are.
Excuse me.
Proud, proud, proud.
Going a little overboard
with this, aren't ya?
I'm sorry. I'm trying
to be supportive.
I know this is honorary,
but it means a lot to me.
Hi, tim.
Barbara besson.
I'm on the fund-raising
committee at western.
Hi there.
This is my wife jill.
Nice to meet you.
Oh, tim, it's really great
to have you back here.
It's really great
to be allowed back here.
Ha-ha-ha-ha. You are
gonna do fantastic things
for this university.
I think we're gonna be able
to build the new library
With all the donations
you'll help us get.
What are you talking about?
Well, you're a big celebrity
in the construction world,
And we'll be able to use you
to solicit contributions
From the
building community.
Solicit contributions.
Mm, and he'll be
wonderful at it.
That's why I really
pushed to have him
get this doctorate.
Some members of the committee
Wanted to give it
to an award-winning poet.
Like he could help us
raise a dime. Ha-ha-ha.
But that's not the only reason
you're giving tim the degree.
They appreciate
tool time, right?
Tool time?
My show.
Oh, yes. I've never
seen it, but I hear
it's very cute.
I'll see you
at the podium.
Yeah.
Cute, real cute.
Feel like an idiot.
I feel like
an idiot.
The only reason I'm here is
because they want a celebrity
to help them solicit funds.
Hey, hey, she just is from
the fund-raising committee.
She doesn't represent
everybody at western.
Look, even if they are
just giving this to you
because you're a celebrity,
You wouldn't be a celebrity
if you didn't have a great show.
Binford hired you
because you did so well
in engineering at western.
You believe that?
Yes, I do.
I'm sorry. I...
I should've been
more supportive all along.
I was feeling jealous
because it's gonna be
so many years
Until I get my doctorate.
The presentation of the ph.D.S
is about to begin.
By the time
I get my ph.D.,
I'll be too old to remember
what ph.D. Stands for.
Don't feel bad.
I'm just about
to get one,
And I still don't know
what it stands for.
Knock 'em dead.
Now we'd like to present
this year's honorary doctorate
To an alumnus -
class of '76.
A man who, day in and day out,
Teaches people that,
with the right tools,
Anything is possible.
Let's give a warm
Western michigan university
welcome
To tim "the tool man" taylor.
Professor hankey.
Thank you.
Ahem.
Thank you all.
I, uh... Oh, boy.
Ahem.
You know, the last time
I gave a speech at western,
I was actually
in the dean's office.
Remember that?
Trying to convince her
to not kick me out of school.
I had those women's underpants
on my head.
It was frat week.
It was a long time ago.
He's dyin'.
You know, my dad
taught me years ago
That a tool in your hands
keeps those hands
out of trouble.
What this university taught me
Was that education is perhaps
the greatest tool of 'em all.
Of course, my first
couple years here,
I thought a corkscrew
was the best tool...
But seriously, I want
you all to know how much
I appreciate this award.
I really do.
I also want you to know
I have nothing but respect
for all of you
Who have put in years of work
to earn an advanced degree -
One student out there
in particular -
So here is to
higher education.
Let me help you.
Uh, watch your hand
on that.
Aah!
I know how she feels,
I'll tell ya that.
But that kinda felt good there
just at the beginning of that.
I've been there.
Uh, I suppose you wanna
see me in your office.
Well, it's time once again
to dip into the ol' mailbag.
Heidi, the mailbag,
please.
I bet your anxious
to read all those letters
Congratulating you
on your ph.D.?
I don't think we'll have time
to read them all, al.
I think we might.
Todd from toledo writes,
"dear tim, when I heard
you were getting a ph.D.,
Three words came to mind -
why not al?"
Thanks, todd. "he's the one
who works his tail off
day in, day out.
"it's time for america
to stand up and cheer
for albert borland,
Who slaves..."
I can't read this, todd.
Tirelessly.
How did you know
what that said?
I guessed.
Did you,
Or is it possible
that albert borland
Is todd from toledo?
How could you stoop
to something so dumb?
I don't know.
But there's no use
Reading this letter
from andy from akron.
Actually, uh,
mr. Smarty flannel,
This is - further from
the truth - here, look.
"dear t..." ha-ha-ha-ha.
The voice.
(gibberish)